	       Haven & Hearth Client -- Copying Rights

This file documents the copying rights of the Haven & Hearth client
source tree. The source tree is partitioned into a few sections, each
with their own copying restrictions. These partitions and their
respective licensing details are as follows:

 * The files in the `src/haven' directory and its subdirectories are
   the main source code of the client. It is subject to the GNU Lesser
   General Public License, version 3, as published by the Free
   Software Foundation. A copy of this license can be found in the
   file `doc/LGPL-3' in this source tree. The copyright to all these
   files is owned by Fredrik Tolf and Björn Johannessen.

 * The files in the `lib' directory are external libraries and are,
   thus, owned by third parties. The owners and licenses of these
   files are as follows:
   
    - lib/gluegen-rt.jar, lib/jogl.jar:
      These files are part of JOGL, the Java OpenGL
      implementation. They are not compiled into the client binary,
      but just included for the compilation classpath.
      
      They are, as far as I can tell, owned by Sun Microsystems, and
      licensed under a BSD license. Please see its homepage,
      <http://jogl.dev.java.net/>, for further and current details.
      
    - lib/jogg.jar, lib/jorbis.jar:
      These files are part of JCraft's open source implementation of
      the OGG and Vorbis multimedia formats. They are extracted and
      included in the Haven binary itself.
      
      They are licensed under the LPGL, version 2.1, and appear to be
      owned by JCraft, Inc. Its homepage is
      <http://www.jcraft.com/jorbis/>.

    - lib/jnlp.jar:
      I hate this file. I couldn't find any documentation whatsoever
      on obtaining any JAR file for compiling against the JNLP
      interfaces, so I had to resort to violence: I extracted the
      interface "class" files from Sun's JNLP client's JAR file and
      made this file containing only those interface classes.
      
      I don't really know which license they should be considered
      being under, and they are probably, but not obviously, owned by
      Sun Microsystems. If anyone can find a replacement for them, I'd
      accept it at any time.

    - lib/jglob.jar
      This is a simple annotation processor for collecting various
      type lists in the source code. It was written by me, Fredrik
      Tolf, and can be considered to be in the public domain. Source
      code can be had at
      <http://www.dolda2000.com/gitweb/?p=jglob.git>.

    - lib/haven-res.jar
      This file is not actually distributed with this source tree, but
      is downloaded from Haven's web server as part of the default
      target of the Ant build file. It is the file containing all the
      data files with game content. In particular, it is necessary for
      actually connecting to our game server and playing, and it also
      contains some graphics for "bootstrapping" the client (which
      could be replaced if you so wish).
      
      Its contents are owned by us, Fredrik Tolf and Björn
      Johannessen, and we reserve all rights to it.

 * The files in the `src/dolda/xiphutil' are files constituting a
   simple library for actually using JCraft's Jogg/Jorbis
   libraries. It was written by me, Fredrik Tolf, and can be
   considered to be in the public domain.

 * The file `etc/icon.png' is the icon used for the main client
   window. You're perfectly free to copy it verbatim or replace it as
   you wish, but it should be considered our trademark.

 * The majority of the other files, including the Ant build file
   (`build.xml') and the various small scripts and insignificant data
   files in the `etc' directory (except `etc/icon.png', as described
   above) can be considered to be in the public domain.

 * The build script, when run by Ant, will produce lots of stuff in
   the `build' directory. It comes from all over the source tree, and
   will thus be subject to various of the above licenses. Particularly
   worthy of notice, however, is the `build/haven.jar' file, which is
   the build script's primary output. It will consist of files compile
   from the `src' directory, some resources from the `etc' directory
   (including our amazing trademark icon), and the extracted JCraft
   files. Thus, excepting our trademark, award-winning icon, it will
   be LPGL and a little bit public domain. Then, obviously, you're
   basically free to do whatever you like with it as long as you make
   sure to distribute the corresponding source code (and remember to
   honor our acclaimed, trademark icon).

It must be noticed that the Git repository which is the main keeper of
this source tree contains, in historical versions, copies of the game
resources (this was before the file `haven-res.jar' existed). In these
versions, they are located in a directory named `res'. They are
subject to the same terms as `lib/haven-res.jar' as described
above. You are free to copy them around verbatim as part of the Git
repository. If, for any reason, you decide to publish a historical
version of this source tree which contains these resources, or any
derivative work thereof, you must add a notice pointing this fact out,
and the fact that they are owned by Fredrik Tolf and Björn
Johannessen, and are proprietary to us.

If you change the source code so as to incorporate other files of new
ownership or other licenses (like your own stuff), you should remember
to update this file accordingly, so as to not confuse any new
recipients.

Do notice, however, that if you wish us to incorporate any changes you
make into our mainline client, as published on Haven's & Hearth's
website, we will require you to turn over the copyright ownership to
us. Please see <http://www.havenandhearth.com/portal/doc-src> for
details (the "Contributing Back" section).

--

This file was authored by Fredrik Tolf. It was last updated 2009-07-30.
